in today's video we will look at the
american spy thriller red sparrow where
ballerina dominica eggerova
is recruited to sparrow school a russian
intelligence service where she is forced
to use her body as a weapon
her first mission targeting a cia agent
threatens to unravel the security of
both nations
spoilers ahead you have been warned now
like the video and subscribe to the
channel if you enjoyed this video
in the opening scenes of the movie we
are introduced to our two lead
characters
dominica eggerova and nate nash the
setting
is modern day russia dominica is
listening to music whilst nate is
listening to a coded recording
as nate decrypts the code and removes a
weapon from underneath his desk
dominica arrives at the theater and
begins to apply makeup
domenica is a famous ballerina and as
she begins to perform we see nate nash
a cia agent enter the park to meet his
russian mole
codenamed marble the classical music
playing over the scenes
intensifies as does the situation for
our two leads
nate is confronted by the police and
fires a gun to create a distraction from
his mole
he is chased through town where he
manages to make it to the u.s embassy
dominica is lifted and spun through the
air by her leading man but as he goes to
put her down
he drops her and she lands badly nate
drops to the floor and surrender at the
same time as dominica falls and breaks
her ankle
dominica's uncle ivan who is the deputy
director of the svr
comes to visit and offers her a job
working with him
he also gives her photographs of her
lead man kissing the girl who replaced
dominica in the ballet
dominica understands that she was
dropped on purpose
and goes to confront the pair she walks
into the theater to find the two ballet
leads having sex in the bathroom
she beats them both violently with her
walking stick then
leaves when she returns home her mother
is on the floor unable to get up and it
becomes clear to dominica that she will
have to take her uncle's job
if she wishes to maintain good care for
her mother we see dominica getting
dressed up as her uncle's voice relays
instructions
she is tasked with seducing dmitry
ustanov for information
but when they go to his room he begins
to rape her as this is happening another
svr agent enters the room and kills
dimitri
strangling him with a piece of wire
dimitri's blood drips onto dominica who
is taken away by the svr agent
dominica is given two choices train as
an agent
or be killed for witnessing the murder
of dmitry dominica is sent to state
school 4 to train as a red sparrow
here she meets the matron who tells her
that if she cannot be of service to her
state
she will put a bullet through her head
teaching begins and the matron calls
dominica along with a boy named victor
to the front of the class
and tells him to strip victor complies
but dominica
refuses meanwhile nate is back in
washington for his debrief where he is
suspended from foreign assignments
nate argues that he has been with marvel
for three years and marble will refuse
to work with
anyone else dominica's training
continues with activities such as
shooting
lock picking and learning how different
substances can be used and traced
dominica excels nate is in a meeting
with the cia
he tells him that he has a tail which
makes him believe marble is still alive
as the cia has been unable to establish
contact with marble they give nate one
final assignment
to meet marble in budapest and get him
to communicate via one of the other
agents
at state school 4 matron tells the class
the purpose of a red sparrow
every human being is a puzzle with a
missing piece
a red sparrow must establish the real
need of the other person and become
that missing piece the students are
assigned returning soldiers and told to
take care of their needs
dominica picks a quiet boy and takes him
to her room
later when she is showering a fellow
sparrow walks in and tries to rape her
she rips off the shower handle and beats
him with it dominica's uncle
ivan is in a meeting with the senior
members of the svr including general
korchnoy
to discuss nate they are aware that nate
will be trying to establish contact with
their mole and they are keen to send in
another agent to establish the moles
identity
though dominica has caused friction with
the matron due to her continued refusal
to obey orders
she is given the assignment in budapest
she must get close to nate establish
trust
and find the mole dominica moves into an
apartment
alongside another agent called marta she
is quick to establish contact with nate
but
he is quick to realize that she is a
russian agent
dominica inspects marta's room and
discovers that she is assigned to buy
classified intelligence from a senior
u.s staff member
stephanie boucher nate has invited
dominica to dinner but she doesn't show
instead waiting outside for him to leave
she then follows him back to his
apartment and gets him to talk about the
incident in the park that we witnessed
at the beginning of the movie
dominica is contacted by ivan she tells
him that she is building trust with nate
and has extracted information about the
night in the park
when ivan pushes her asking why she is
not working more quickly
dominica says that she is helping marta
with her assignment
when dominica returns to her apartment
marta has been brutally murdered for
sharing the details of her assignment
and dominica is threatened with the same
if she failed to deliver results
dominica goes to nate and tells him
everything he offers her a position
working for the cia and tells her that
he would never
treat her how her uncle does dominica
passes a lie detector given by the cia
and takes up their first assignment to
meet with ms busher and swap the
intelligence for fake disks to give to
the russians
she completes this task but as she
leaves the hotel she is captured by the
russians and taken home
here she is tortured we see her
repeatedly asked if she gave miss
boucher to the americans
the first time she says no she is
stripped naked locked in a room with her
hands tied to the ceiling water pours
down on her and they're a blast of
intensely heavy metal music
the second time dominica says no she is
beaten with a hammer across her legs
arms and finally her head the final time
dominica says that she did not give miss
boucher to the americans
she is threatened with a gun but when
the trigger is pulled it becomes clear
it wasn't loaded ivan enters the room to
talk to dominica
he tells her that he can only provide so
much protection for her
she responds by telling her uncle that
this was all part of her strategy
she had to make the americans believe
her credibility she needed to give nate
a reason to believe her and now that she
has been tortured
nate will have total trust in her
dominica asks her uncle to let her go
back and
prove that she can get the job done
efficiently at this point we are left to
wonder
whose side is she really on upon
dominica's return to budapest she is
reunited with nate
they passionately embrace and the care
they have for each other seems to be
genuine
however in the middle of the night
dominica awakes to find that nate is no
longer asleep next to her
she walks out into the kitchen where she
sees nate tied to a chair
an svr agent slowly torturing him at
first we see the shock on dominica's
face
but she knows what she must do and we
soon see the distant look return to her
eyes
she offers to help extract information
from nate by peeling off slices of his
skin
nate yells out in pain but dominica
continues
as the trust builds between dominica and
the svr agent he lets down his guard
just long enough for dominica to attack
him and free nate
the two of them work together to bring
down the russian but not without
sustaining wounds and injuries
themselves
as dominica recovers in hospital it
looks like it is all over for her
she has blown her cover to the russians
by saving nate's life and she has no
further cards to play
general korchnoy comes to talk to her a
man who we have seen to be steadfast and
intimidating
throughout the movie just as all hope is
lost
courchnoy makes the shocking confession
that it is he
who is the mole korchnoy is impressed by
dominica's work and dedication and wants
her to give him up in order to gain the
full trust of the russians
she can then take over his role by
giving russian intelligence to the usa
korchner accepts his fate and awaits the
arrival of the russians to impose his
imminent death a team of russians and
americans gather on the airfield to
trade moles
nate holds on to dominica's arm and asks
how she was able to give up the mull so
easily
he is disappointed in her decision we
see marvel step
out of the helicopter with a bag over
his head nate continues to express his
demay by telling dominica that the
russians will never let them take marble
alive
she says that one day he will understand
what she has done
but nate reiterates that he will not
because he is not in the habit of
throwing people away
dominica begins to move towards the
russians marble towards the americans
all that is left is for nate to confirm
the mole's identity
the bag is lifted and in a huge final
twist we see that the man dominica has
named as the mole is not
korchnoy but is in fact her uncle ivan
in a sequence of flashbacks we see that
dominica has worked for a long time to
implicate her uncle
removing a glass from nate's apartment
and placing it in ivans and opening a
bank account in ivan's name
into which she got the cia to transfer
money
there is a look of resignation in ivan's
eyes and as he passes dominica he says
you have killed me her response to him
is
didn't i do it well uncle they walk past
each other but as ivan approaches the
americans he is shot dead
the russians grab dominica who is in
shock and push her into the helicopter
she is later receiving a medal of honor
from the russians
court schneid gives her a nod as
everyone applauds
domenica returns to looking after her
mother she receives a phone call
there is no voice only the sound of the
classical ballet music
which makes her smile thanks for
watching
make sure to like the video if you
enjoyed it and subscribe to the channel
to see more of these movie summaries